1) https://gradschool.utexas.edu/academics/graduation/deadlines-and-submission-instructions
2) https://gradschool.utexas.edu/academics/theses-and-dissertations/doctoral-candidacy/oral-examinations



Doctoral Students

If you expect to complete your degree during a given semester, file to graduate by submitting the Doctoral Graduation Application form.

It must be completed and submitted during the appropriate time period:

    Fall 2016 Graduates — September 1 - November 18, 2016

Students who do not submit the form by the deadline will not be eligible to receive their degree until the subsequent semester.
Registration Requirement for Final Semester

In your final semester, you must be registered for _99W. (Music majors should check with their graduate adviser for registration requirements.)
Dissertation Defense/Final Oral Examination

After you file to graduate, schedule your dissertation defense, also known as the final oral examination.
Dissertation Submission

All doctoral degree candidates must upload their dissertation by 3 p.m. on the deadline AND before final paperwork is submitted:

    Fall 2016 Graduates — Friday, December 2, 2016 by 3:00 p.m.

Required Printed Pages

Students are also required to submit a printed copy of the following pages to the Graduate School, Main 101, by 3 p.m. on the relevant deadline listed above. All paperwork must be submitted together in one packet:

    A signature page (with original signatures of your supervising committee as listed on your Doctoral Graduation Application form). In the event that nonsupervisory committee members are unavailable to sign in person, scanned signatures can be accepted. The committee supervisor's signature MUST be original ink;
    A copy of your Copyright Tutorial certification email;
    A Statement on Research with Human Participants form; 
    A Statement of Research in Restricted Regions form; and
    Any requests to Delay Publication.

Submit the forms whether you used human participants or conducted research in a restricted region or not. If you did use human participants, attach a copy of the IRB approval letter or waiver or exemption notification of the form. If you traveled to a restricted region, attach a copy of your IOC approval letter(s).

If you cannot deliver the required pages in person, they may be mailed to arrive by the deadline. We recommend that you use a guaranteed method of delivery. Send them to:

The University of Texas at Austin
Dean of Graduate Studies
110 Inner Campus Drive, Stop G0400
Austin, TX 78712-1710
Other Requirements

In addition to the required printed pages, doctoral candidates are also requested to complete the following by the relevant deadline listed above:

    The Association of American Universities Data Exchange exit survey regarding your experience as a doctoral student; and
    The confidential National Science Foundation (NSF) Survey of Earned Doctorates.
