Nicholas Malaya
STC
tacc user: npm7

Description:

Bayesian Inference is a powerful statistical method that has found a variety of applications in 
uncertainty quantification, decision theory, model selection and many others. 
These methods have been applied to diverse fields such as epidemiology, spam filters, computer vision, 
as well as assessments of the reliability of the readyness of the United States nuclear weapon stockpiles. 

However, Bayes' Theorem, despite existing since the 18th century, has only recently become more prevalent in scientific applications. 
The recent dramatic growth in Bayesian methods coincides with the exponential expansion of computational power. 
This is because for all but a small set of models, the posterior distribution is unable to 
be analytically determined, and must be statistically sampled, often requiring far more samples than are 
humanly possible to generate. 

We propose to develop a C++ implementation of the Metropolis-Hastings algorithm. 
This is a Markov Chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) method to sample from a probability distribution. 
These samples will be generated in order to estimate the posterior of a distribution 
for a Bayesian Inference problem. We will generate results for a few different models, in order to 
investigate the model against a known (analytic) conjugate prior, as well as more complicated (non-tracible without sampling) 
distributions. 

The code will written in C++, and parallelized with openMP. We will present results of this study that have been verified against 
analytic distributions, and then a strong scaling analysis will be performed to observe the 
speed-up on a single node of the Texas Advance Supercomputing Center's (TACC) Lonestar supercomputer. 

The codebase for this project will be developed on bitbucket. A fully functioning build system alongside a
 'make check' regression suite will be included in order for users to ensure the compiled codebase 
functions correctly. The output of these simulations will be saved using the HDF-5 library. 
The resulting datasets will be postprocessed using python with h5py, numpy+scipy and matplotlib. 
